fear is a
belief that something negative is going
to happen rather than something positive
is going to happen so it's like that's
on the other side you're almost
believing in your failure right rather
than believing in your success so you
have to go attack and collapse
these different fears and part of that
is going to be sucking out the the
penalty
if if you fail so you got to realize
like there is no such thing as failure
there's just learning
hey everybody welcome to impact theory
our goal with this show and company is
to introduce you to the people and ideas
that will help you actually execute on
your dreams all right today's guest is
the founder and ceo of one of the
fastest growing human performance
companies in america he's also a new
york times bestselling author and top
podcaster whose show has been downloaded
more than 10 million times on itunes
alone what makes him so interesting
though is that on it the inc 500 fitness
juggernaut that he founded and took from
nothing to an industry titan doing tens
of millions of dollars in revenue is
that it was launched in desperation
following years of failure by his own
admission his amazing success story has
been less a classic business case study
and more an intensely personal journey
of self-development that happened to
reflect itself outwardly in business
success
this raw and authentic approach to
growing a company has made him one of
the most fascinating examples of the
modern mission-driven entrepreneur
someone who spends entire marketing
cycles not pushing product but rather
talking about esoteric topics such as
plant-based medicinal healing tripping
balls with psychedelics and how to build
a healthy sex life not because he thinks
it's going to move more units but rather
because he believes it adds more value
and this commitment to hyper
authenticity coupled with a desire for
genuine mastery has made him one of the
most sought after voices in the space
and he's now a regular contributor to
outlets like entrepreneur forbes the
doctors and the joe rogan experience so
please help me in welcoming the man who
went from selling fleshlights to being a
flashlight for anyone seeking a better
life the author of the best-selling
smash hit book own the day own your life
aubry marcus
dude
that working on that one was a lot of
fun you really are like this
classic example of what entrepreneurs
are becoming because we have this new
voice with podcasting and everything
it's really incredible to watch you be
so mission driven and mission focused
and i want to talk about that at a high
level the notion of really optimizing
yourself because you have a
it's very atypical
notion of optimization versus the just
grind it out work your face off kind of
mentality where'd that come from
well i think it's really a pragmatic
approach you know i think you can always
get in that super grind mode that that
real push that sprint to get things done
but as in any sprint if you're an
athlete running a you know quarter mile
you're going to need recovery after that
you know and i think that's something
that we can sometimes fail to recognize
that you don't actually get stronger
when you're sprinting you get stronger
when you recover and i think the psyche
is just the same as the body in that we
perform best when we have periods where
we push and then periods where we
reflect integrate recover and so for me
it's just been listening to what works
for me you know i can continue to grind
and continue to perform worse and worse
and worse or i can take the
opportunities when i'm inspired and push
really hard and then take those
next phases to recover adapt and try and
come back the next time and sprint even
faster sprint even farther but it's just
finding that balance that's really
effective for me to get what i need to
get done and how do you find that like
is there
an internal uh self-awareness that
you've cultivated or
yeah there's like a natural sense to
find balance and i think we all have
that i think we know it we just override
that voice we're like oh more coffee or
oh more something else to hide the
signals that our body is naturally
telling us like our body is constantly
giving us clues but the problem is it
comes with a whisper and we can drown
out that whisper in a million different
ways with distraction with you know
mental processes with you know physical
things like like i said drinking coffee
or taking adderall or doing whatever you
need to do to drown out that sound that
says hey really you need to sleep you
know like that's really what your body
is asking for and so i think it's really
just tuning in to what you need and
being able to listen to that voice and
not only hear it but follow through on
what it says if you had to put a really
fine point on what you think
optimization should be when somebody
hears you talking about that um what
should they take away from it
well it's ultimately the principle that
you know you want to be a little bit
better in some way tomorrow than you are
today but it's not going to be in a
linear path again these go through
cycles of stress and recovery so it's
just kind of being able to surf the flow
of that and know
again it really comes down to balance so
it's the practices like you need to know
what to do for sure and then you need to
know how to apply those things in the
right way so when you when to push and
when to take the pressure off the gas as
well and i think that's really
understanding that so part of it is the
knowledge and then part of it is the
follow-through and then part of it is
the discipline to know not only when you
need to go but when you need to rest now
the book by the way a is amazing and
then b it is really robust
and i was really surprised how when i
heard the concept for the book as being
like this is an ideal day
i i wouldn't have expected that it was
so meaty and so backed with science she
was like 379
like
citations it was pretty intense what
made you pick
such highly tactical stuff as
your
manual essentially
yeah i think it's important to really
trust that what you're doing is going to
work you know and i think that's a
combination of experience and all of the
different people that we work with top
performers and athletes and everything
but it's also a mix of there's a great
robust body of science that's available
out there and i think having the
combination of these really practical
experiential you know understanding of
what has worked for me and what has
worked for those people that i've you
know worked with and encountered in my
life through on it and through these
different you know avenues where i've
been able to connect with the world's
best but also you know what does the
research say you know where is the
science pointing us and i think
combining both of those and finding the
areas where both lock in and really
strong but trying to find the sweet spot
where both kind of line up and where
science meets practicum to really get
the most effective plan
to go through a fully balanced day a day
where
you feel like you're really living it's
not a day that feels like oh man i'm on
this diet and it sucks and i got to do
this like what's a day that makes life
awesome and and makes you again a little
bit better tomorrow from having done it
today and that's what we wanted to try
and cover in the book i love that talk
to me about
belief going to what you were just
talking about you have to trust that
it's going to work out
you talk about placebo you talk about
the power of belief what what is
something around that that you think
people misunderstand or underutilize
maybe well i think in the health space
you know we're some of the worst at it
actually because we arm ourselves with
this information we'll read a book like
wheat belly and we'll find out all the
horrible things that bread do to us and
we might have been eating bread our
whole life
and doing it pretty well but we read a
book like that and like oh man bread is
poison so we tell ourselves bread is
poison and then all of a sudden you have
that little bit of grain you're like i'm
getting breaking out and everything and
really that's just the mind and the
nocebo effect telling us that what we're
doing is poison for us and i think we
have to be really mindful that
the mind can actually translate
information in a lot of different ways
and has way more control than we give it
credit and this has been proven hundreds
of times over and over again i know you
had dr joe dispenza on the show and he's
one of the leaders in this field but if
you look at the research everything from
breaking out with poison ivy or not
breaking out with poison ivy you know
that's controlled by the mind you've
talked about weaponizing belief
which intoxicates me in a way that i
can't explain i find that so interesting
you talked about it in conjunction with
conor mcgregor what do you mean by
weaponizing belief and how can we employ
that
yeah i think you know we're all really
good at detecting each other's belief to
a certain degree and
you know i we're
businessmen so for us it's probably
going to come in a pitch meeting right
like or an employee or something like
you'll have that person come to pitch
you you have that employee come and they
are just so sure not overcompensating
because that actually is a sign of
insecurity right but just so calmly sure
that they are the right person and they
have the right idea
that you may not even get through a
quarter of their pitch you're like i'm
in like i'm in you win like i believe
you 100
because you know that and you can kind
of sense that they've reconciled all of
their own fears all their own
insecurities and that they truly believe
that they got the goods
and i think that's somebody weaponizing
their belief that somebody who has done
the hard work to really know themselves
know their product know what's going on
and they're utilizing belief to convince
you
far you know far more than you know the
documents and everything else whereas
you can have somebody else with a great
idea who's really insecure and not
confident doesn't believe in himself and
you'll look at it like i just don't
think it's going to work you know and
the same can be said for fighters right
because fighters
that's a very intimate belief detection
game i mean they're right there
at the at the weigh-in staring at each
other and they're right there across
from the ring and i think
not enough is talked about about
actually believing if you're going to
win because i think
the other person can detect that as well
so conor mcgregor is someone who
believes in himself so much that he
comes in at 100 belief and if his you
know if his opponent is coming in at 99
all of a sudden that one percent
difference is gonna be a a mountain it's
like wow he's at a hundred like a
hundred percent believe well i'm only at
99 well what does he know maybe he's
right you know and so that becomes a
weapon for him and has allowed him to be
you know one of the
greatest mixed martial artists in the
world and and you'll see that kind of
across the board so it's really just
using belief
to affect reality in a positive way
you've said that
practice makes the master
[Music]
the idea of getting to 100 belief is so
useful and so powerful how can people
practice because i know somebody
listening right now they're thinking i
don't have that belief in myself like i
want to come in and do that pitch or i
want to be that kind of fighter or
whatever it is that they're trying to be
truly great at
but they don't know how to practice it
they don't know how to cross that chasm
what have you found is usable for
practicing belief yeah
you know i talk about this i actually
one of the first big pieces i wrote is a
course called go for your win and i talk
about oh i have a whole chapter on
belief and different forces and and to
sum that up um i think there's a couple
things that that you want to do for one
you have to really do the work like you
have to back it with hard work you know
and if you ask conor mcgregor like
what's the secret to his success hard
work hard work hard work i don't know if
he actually works harder than anybody
but he believes he does you know he has
no doubts in his mind that he's actually
working harder and and that's i think
important so
really making sure that you really do
your best to get the goods you know and
to and to practice that and to go out
there and put yourself out there and
then on the other side what is the thing
what is the antagonist of belief well
the antagonist of belief is fear you
know fear is a
belief that something negative is going
to happen rather than something positive
is going to happen so it's like that's
on the other side you're almost
believing in your failure right rather
than believing in your success so you
have to go attack and collapse these
different fears and part of that is
going to be sucking out the the penalty
if if you fail right because like a lot
of the fear comes because we're afraid
that we're going to judge ourselves
harshly or whatever so you got to
realize like there is no such thing as
failure there's just learning right so
you collapse the penalty for failure so
that collapses the fear which allows you
to believe even more so that's one way
to do it and the other way is to just
look at fear itself and play out the
different scenarios know that you're
going to be fine
again forgive yourself always
and and really
also just attack fear wherever you see
it even when it's trivial even when it's
some kind of we were just before the
before we got on here we talked about
the fear of the number 13
trigatrochophobia like if you're afraid
of 13 you know what you need to do you
put 13s all over your house
you know you need to like sit in 13s you
need to go to the 13th demand to be on
the 13th floor of every hotel in every
airplane because you got to get over
that because that is telling
yourself that there's something
irrational that should control you and
if you believe there's something that's
irrational that should control you that
will apply universally so wherever you
find fear specifically that's out of
balance with actual danger like i'm not
saying touch a hot stove or put your
hand in a rattlesnake cage like there's
danger there that's not fear but 13
no danger you know that's not real so go
collapse that if there's a fear of
crickets like i have or fear of like
whatever it is collapse fear wherever
you see it and that specific collapse
will help with the universal collapse of
fear in general what framing device do
you use though because as you were
telling that story and the notion of
sucking out the consequence i think is
really strong but there's a real
consequence for you so you have a
business employees count on you like if
you make enough wrong moves people lose
their jobs they spiral out into panic
like
how do you get to the point where even
something like that you're able to say
you know this this isn't really a
life-and-death consequence
you just got to understand the only
thing you're responsible for is your
best
like you can't do better than your best
you just do your best and if you try to
obsess too much you're not doing your
best you're going to be paralyzed right
so you have to get as much information
as you can make the most educated choice
make sure that you're not choosing based
on ego or emotion or
you know greed or
these other forces that delude you and
prevent you from thinking clearly but if
you do your best and you fail like what
are you gonna do beat yourself up for
that like that doesn't make any sense if
you're doing your best if you're really
laying it out there there's nothing
nothing more you can do and and that's i
think the that's really the key is just
to constantly
rest and rely on that fact that i'm just
i'm doing my best and there's nothing
nothing more than that
i want to go back to what you were
saying about fear which i find really
interesting and is admittedly amusing
that uh crickets and roaches i think
really freak you out um
and so you've talked about immersion
therapy but now taking it beyond sort of
the external things when you said when
something really stings you it really
upsets you you know that there's
something an insecurity a fear or
something going on there what is that
process of discovering what it really is
that's bothering you look like so that
you can remove it
yeah i mean i think the first thing that
happens is you try to externalize that
thing and rationalize other reasons why
it's not your own you know raj
rationalize why this is
something that is legitimate you know
and and you should feel this way and
you're justified in your anger and
you're justified and and so you have to
get through that initial
you know initial kind of
desire to rationalize these things that
you're feeling and then just go back to
the understanding like
all right what can i learn from this
where where is this touching me where
what is the wound that i have that this
is activating because ultimately we are
responsible for our own reaction to
things you know we're not responsible
for the things themselves i mean people
are gonna do
messed up things you know things that
things that hurt you know there's gonna
be
random chaotic incidences that are gonna
be unfortunate in your life but we're
responsible for our action and reaction
to those things always and the strongest
reactions are typically coming from
places of wound or fear or insecurity so
it's just the practice of really looking
at those things and
you know that's that kind of deep
introspection that requires getting
really still and clearing out
you know your identity as the ego and
your identity as the body and then
accepting your identity as consciousness
as the observer of things
and i think one of the you know really
tactical ways that i do that is i'll if
if i'm angry or upset i'll go i'll put
myself in the third person and say oh
look the aubrey is angry right now like
what's the aubrey feeling why is the
aubry so angry
well the aubrey's angry because he's
scared you know he's scared that he's
going to lose something or he's scared
that this is not going to happen so it
always typically comes back to some kind
of fear
and so
being objective allows you to kind of
look at that stuff
so in the process of exploring
you came across or you've talked about
certainly this concept of the warrior
ethos
coming from most people i think i would
i would at least presume to understand
what they mean but knowing some of the
explorations you've done with the vision
questing and um really doing this the
high level as you called it um esoteric
work of trying to separate yourself from
the ego from the consciousness all of
that
what in your world what is the warrior
ethos
i think to me you define a warrior as
someone who's willing to do battle with
the resistance in their own mind or the
parasite of their mind to use the toltec
language
and that's someone who's willing to show
up and not do battle necessarily
externally but do battle internally and
reconcile those things that are not
serving them and admit those things and
go into the shadow and and be willing to
go into your inmost cave you know to use
the hero's journey language and and find
out what dragons lay there and find out
where your deepest fears and
insecurities are like that's that's a
warrior to me and so the warrior ethos
is a commitment to do that it's a
commitment to say as soon as you see an
area where you realize you're out of
balance or see an area where
there's things that are scary or you're
insecure
that you go towards those things you
know that you don't allow those things
to rule you you know and i think it's
that willingness to go into the go into
the cave and go into the shadow that
defines a warrior
and you know i think that's really key
and ultimately using
the desire to be fit for service so that
you can be of service is also is the
secondary part of the warrior ethos it's
this idea that i have to take care of me
so that i can take care of anybody else
because if you're not taking care of
yourself you're not going to be able to
take care of anybody all right that's
super interesting so let's dive into
that a little bit so if i'm
i'll i'll reiterate and tell me if i
have gotten it wrong in any way so
the warrior ethos is there's a
darkness in the cave which we'll say
represents the things about myself
either that i don't yet fully understand
or maybe don't want to understand about
myself and going in and looking nakedly
uh at my inadequacies that's definitely
me using my own language
with the notion that if i can overcome
those things it'll be more of a purity
of action which will allow me to then
not only help myself but help other
people yeah
yeah it's going to help you become who
you truly are and that's what's going to
ultimately allow you to do the things
that are your legacy that do the things
that are going to help the world in the
most positive way and help those
people you know very close to you and
also help the people you know many
ripples away and but it all comes with
expressing yourself as the best version
of yourself who you truly are and you
can't do that unless you're willing to
you know kind of go into the shadow
you've talked
you have an analogy that i think is
really powerful imagine your favorite
video game and it had no dragons for you
to slay like in life we have this sort
of impulse where we want things to be
made easier but in reality would that
really serve us in terms of trying to
become something better
you seem to have put yourself in
arguably the most difficult position in
terms of having dragons to slay that
will bring things up which is being in
an open relationship yeah which i
imagine brings up insecurities i mean um
yeah
walk us through
what that's like um and and do you think
having some sort of stress or obviously
not necessarily that but having a
stressor that's forcing you to
really identify your insecurities is
useful
i do and and i think you have to be
mindful though that you know just like
if you go to the gym and you haven't you
know worked out in a couple years and
you load the squat rack with 305 you
know then the 315 then it's it's not
gonna
it's not gonna be effective it's gonna
break you you know and i think making
sure that you don't add so many
stressors that you actually break
yourself that you have time to recover
is important but open relationship has
certainly been you know adding multiple
wheels on that squat bar and putting a
lot of pressure on a lot of different
systems like how much can you love
yourself without needing the validation
of your lover because
open relationship which is allowing and
seeing your lover as yourself in a
certain way and allowing them to
experience love and pleasure and
anything that they wish from anybody you
know as long as it's going to add to
both of their lives right so it's not
something that's going to be taken away
like allowing that to happen
removes any sense of specialness removes
any sense of validation that you're
getting from your partner and i think
that's one of the one of the
things that we're most attached to you
know i mean our partner is probably our
biggest
validation dispenser
of of anything that in our job and a few
other things but you know they make us
feel worthy of love they make us feel
like a man they make us feel like all of
these different things
and when you open the container you know
all of those things get threatened you
know and you have to really then focus
on
knowing yourself
beyond that mirror
that says that you know you're special
because they've chosen you and all these
things so
it's a it's a very intense but beautiful
process because it really ultimately
frees you from
that feeling that you need
somebody else to validate you to be
worthy of love and uh but it's very
painful process a very painful way to do
that but i don't think there's anything
that would have gotten me
through some of the densest aspects of
needing to prove my manhood
you know to be worthy of love like all
of these different programs that open
relationship challenges i don't think i
would have been able to get there if i
hadn't you know
gone with that
gone with that container
you also have
clearly in your company but even in your
own life
have been like the king of
transformation like even looking back on
early episodes that you filmed your
physique was totally different and so to
see how much muscle you've added and i
know what an extraordinary amount of
work that takes so
how do you reconcile the like i'm good
where i am with but it's also okay to
want to push and to be more exactly like
that you're good where you are but you
could do more
i love you where you are
but you could do more
like you're perfect where you are but
you could do more
right it seems like a it seems like
something that's
that doesn't make sense but it does you
know you have to really appreciate where
you are in the journey and say yeah
where you are is awesome
but you could be better because that's
the process is becoming better right so
it's not it's not judging it externally
by any other criteria because every step
is good but the process of striving for
more the process to really
unveiling who you are to an even greater
degree to getting
cleaner and clearer and more full and
more robust and the best version of
yourself like that process is a
beautiful process i think it's one of
the reasons why we're here it feels the
best it feels the best to be continuing
on the path but that doesn't mean that
you look forward to a point in the path
say when i get there i'll love myself
when i get there i'll have made it like
love yourself where you are wherever you
are that's awesome
but still strive for more because the
striving is the journey it's always the
striving
one thing that you mentioned um i forget
if it was in your book or just in a talk
that i heard was in the toltec
tradition there's the notion of the
norwell
nagua nagwell thank you um talk to us
about that because i find that
incredibly fascinating
yeah they make a differentiation between
the person who's the artist and kind of
the canvas you could say you know so the
artist is
an artist painting the masterpiece of
their life they're holding the brush
they decide how they want to make
themselves forge themselves they decide
how they want to express what they want
to what they want to be or how they want
to
interact with this incredible you know
school of life that we have available to
us and then the other side is those
people who are just constantly getting
pain splattered on them from other
people their parents telling oh you
should be this you should do this or
this is what you need to be this is how
you need to look this is how you need to
dress this is what and they're just
receiving
all of this external pressure from what
the toltecs would call the mitote which
is like a term for the marketplace where
everybody's shouting and their
expectations their beliefs their you
know their agreements all the things
that they have that kind of we can
either conform to or decide no no screw
all that
i'm the artist i will decide what i
accept maybe i agree with this
perception maybe i disagree with this
perception but you take control of your
life and the nagwal is a place of
control where you're shaping your own
life with the power of your intent with
the power of your belief with the power
of
choice and actual free will rather than
being just kind of battered around by
everything that society and
and people want you to be
you've said that we should be thinking
of choice as a superpower which i
thought was
really cool what do you mean how is
choice a superpower
it's funny because if we were able to do
like even a fraction of the things we
know we should we would all be badasses
you know but there's so many things you
talk to people yeah i should be doing
that yeah i should be doing i know i
should be i should be meditating yeah i
know i should be doing this i should be
eating better i should be doing this we
all know what
we want to do to be the best version of
ourselves but for whatever reason we
don't do it
you know and there's a lot of reasons
why but we're not doing it and so the
ability to choose and actually decide
what you're going to do to be the nog
well to be the artist and say oh well if
i believe i should meditate then i'll
meditate and just collapsing that i know
i should with actually doing it
you know that is a superpower that's
what defines the
greatest
performers from the people who haven't
quite made it yet it's really their
ability to say oh if i should train now
i will oh if i should eat like this i
will oh if i should do this okay then i
will it's collapsing that knowing what
knowing what you should do and actually
doing it and making that one and that's
ultimately a choice
you told a really cool story it's
wonderfully controversial so let's get a
little controversial you heard somebody
giving a speech they were a former
opiate addict yep and a pretty awesome
answer for how to stop doing it yeah
yeah he goes and it's a room full of
psychologists mostly and psychiatrists
and he goes up there on stage and um
he was a war veteran got addicted to
opiates
and um he says you know there's a lot of
talk about how to how to quit from
opiates you want to tell you know let me
tell you the best way
you put that bottle of pills on the
counter and you don't take another
pill
and it was just you could have heard a
pin drop in that room right there
but ultimately you know while
that that's not going to be an easy path
that is a path that's available like
that is a choice like there's nothing
that is controlling your hand
to open that bottle to put that pill in
your mouth like you have the will
in order to do that and i think a lot of
different talk in society talks about
you know we'll try and rob you of that
oh no no it's it's a disease you have no
control like yeah it's going to
be hard but you have control of
your body of your mind like and we have
to remind people that we do have control
that we are able to do these things you
know he's not he's not like born with
some special muscle that allows him to
do that that other people
aren't like we have the ability to tap
into that superpower of choice that
superpower of free will
not going to be easy because the mind
will play a billion different tricks and
rationalizations and whatever but
ultimately we are in control you know as
i said i'm not saying it's easy and i'm
not saying it's the best strategy you
know i think you got to be fair and say
like oh i can't do that well if you
can't do that use use other methods you
know do what you need to do to be
effective but know that you do have that
power we all have that power we have the
power to to have the agency to make
those type of choices do you have a
method for people to use to strengthen
that muscle yeah it's what i call mental
override and one of the ways i talk
about in my book is to take the cold
shower
the ton a ton of benefits and taking a
cold shower but it's hard you know like
you're going to build cold shock
proteins you're going to drop cortisol
you're going to you know raise
norepinephrine you're going to drop
inflammation it's going to actually
change the state of your body both short
term and long term for greater health
you're going to feel better period if
you take a cold shower
but
it's going to be uncomfortable
so how do you practice doing the
uncomfortable thing that's going to be
beneficial how do you practice taking
that nozzle from nice toasty warm
comfortable hot
the cold well you do it and you do it
over and over and over again until it
becomes not even a choice it's not even
an option you don't look at it and
debate with yourself and argue with
yourself well should i should i was it
really going to be that good maybe i'll
do it tomorrow but
you just don't do that anymore it's like
here it comes
you know and that's the way that you
practice
you practice that you know and then the
more you practice that again practice
makes master
yeah that
the cold shocking the just um now go do
it i think is the
title of that for you which i think is
really really powerful um real fast
before we begin our wrap-up process what
are some really tactical stuff that you
think people really miss that they
should be doing to live that optimal day
so first of all everybody knows that if
you're stressed out take a deep breath
well don't take one deep breath take six
and this is something i talk about a lot
the research from a japanese study shows
that six deep breaths are what it takes
to actually create state change so start
practicing that you get flustered you
get emotional don't take a breath just
take six use that mental override to
take six damn breaths and really start
to unplug from that and then use use the
cold you know use the cold as an ally
use that to
practice mental override use that to
reduce inflammation use that practice i
think that's something that's really
important
making sure you stay hydrated i talk
about the morning mineral cocktail i
think a lot of us we go from caffeine to
all these different other substances and
foods and whatever and a lot of us are
running chronic dehydration and not only
dehydration from water but the minerals
and electrolytes that you need so adding
in some sea salt or some himalayan salt
in with your water
is going to be effective i wake up every
morning 16 ounces of water himalayan sea
salt about 3 grams of that and a splash
of lemon that's something that's really
important finding some way to practice
mindfulness
so finding that way to get to mental
stillness i think is really important
knowing your body enough to know all
right this is what happens when i have a
bunch of sugar you know i feel good for
the second then the insulin kicks in and
then i go hyperglycemic then i feel
exhausted and then i reach for more
coffee like you got to have insight into
those cycles and understand what's going
to be best for you
and knowing knowing yourself with
training knowing what movement patterns
help knowing how your body feels and
reacts
um
you know getting your head and your ego
out of your sex life so it can be a way
to really engage with your partner in a
way that creates deeper connection and
allows you to
be mindful be present you know be in the
big now
sleeping taking naps you know i think
that's one thing that a lot of people
miss they think that you have to get all
your sleep overnight in this
uninterrupted eight hours so good luck
like i don't know anybody who gets
uninterrupted eight hours maybe one or
two people but for most of us you know
we're going to get what we can at night
but then
feel free to take a nap or what nick
little hill in his book sleep calls a
controlled recovery period 30 minutes
where you just kind of zone out and
allow yourself to recover
and then of course on the on the other
side
it's a lot of the other things we talked
about but ultimately you know trust that
you got to forgive yourself you know
forgive yourself for everything that's
happened in the past understand that
you're not the same person that you were
then you're the person that's learned
from all those things you know
heraclitus has a quote
no man steps in the same river twice for
he's not the same river it's not the
same river and he's not the same man you
know we're we're different at any
different moment and we can decide to be
different we can decide to have listened
to this
and change something or change
everything or change whatever we have
that ability we have way more power
than we recognize and what people will
tell us that we have so
stepping into that power and deciding
for ourselves what we want to do with it
i love that
all right before i ask my last question
tell these guys where they can find you
yeah instagram is a great place to
follow me so it's just aubry marcus on
instagram and i do a lot of my
philosophical deep dives and really go
into a lot of this on my podcast the
aubrey marcus podcast so
those are the two best places to connect
with me instagram aubrey marcus aubry
marcus podcast and of course you know we
got facebook and if you're interested in
the tools of human optimization on it's
great for all that
but to connect with me personally those
are the best places very cool
all right my last question what is the
impact that you want to have on the
world
i really feel like i'm here to be a
bridge
and my job is to be a bridge and and
that job is to bridge
the spiritual crowd and let them know
that yeah it's fun to party and have sex
and work out really hard like that's all
good too that's part of life and then
bridge the people who just want to party
and have sex and work out and crush it
and be successful and say oh yeah but
there's this other part it's your
spiritual self it's understanding who
who you truly are and being able to be
still and find love and compassion
and allow people to bridge both sides so
that hopefully
more people can have that balanced
approach where you're not denying the
pleasures and fun of this game of life
that we get to play but you're also not
ignoring
who we truly are as as spiritual
entities and i think if i can be a
bridge and bring people you know back
towards that truly holistic side
um then i think i've
you know done my job well
awesome aubry thank you so much was a
pleasure so that was great
[Applause]
guys when i say fascinating does not
even begin to cover it i mean it dive
into this guy's world what's so
interesting to me is he really is
showing the new version of the modern
entrepreneur somebody that isn't just
trying to sell product but instead is
building product around something that
they really believe in that to the core
of who they are their company starts
anyway as a pure reflection of where
they are and where they want to go and
building a community and creating
products that serve that is truly
extraordinary and watching him put so
much energy into creating content that
invites people along his journey and the
raw way that he shares
is really credible and it's it's not
possible to see in just one interview
but when you take it in in totality when
you read the blog post when you listen
to the podcast when you
look at things that he was doing five
six years ago and that it's all still
out there and you can watch him go on
the journey and share insecurities and
share difficult things that he went
through and talk about being in an open
relationship and talk about struggles
with the business and what it means to
fire somebody who you love and care
about and have compassion for and what
that moment's like and how you engage
with it it's really extraordinary and
when you take all of that together it
really creates the compendium to his
book which shows you what it looks like
in a single day but when you take all of
his content in as a gestalt it shows you
what that looks like as an entire life
it's really interesting and it hints at
where we're going to be as a society 10
15 years from now will you be able to
watch someone like aubry go for 15 or 20
years it's pretty remarkable when
they're willing to share at the level
that he's willing to share you won't
regret it go check it out i think you
guys will be blown away he can take you
from just raw tactics all the way
through to that notion of transcending
the ego it's pretty amazing all right if
you haven't already be sure to subscribe
and until next time my friends be
legendary take
[Applause]
thank you so much for watching and being
a part of this community if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe you're
going to get weekly videos on building a
growth mindset cultivating grit and
unlocking your full potential